[E: 3-5-7-1] myrkr (3). glissando thicket (5). pf+x points (7). pf clusters
(1). pf+x points connect to pf clusters by register. pf+x points connect to pf
clusters by rhythm. pf+x points and pf clusters hybridize by alternation.
alternation of subsections. alternation of divisions. what is the register of
pf+x points? what is the register of pf clusters? pf+x points occur in the
section before last ([C]) and again in the next section ([F]). pf+x points
range falls from [C] to [E] to [F]. pf+x points in 7th octave in [C]. pf+x
points in 6th octave octave in [E]. pf+x points in 4th octave in [F]. pf+x
points still quite high in [E]. piccolo woodblock available together with pf+x
points. lh-muted pf with piccolo woodblock xylophone. alternation from lh-muted
pf+x to pf clusters is possible with rh playing clusters and pianist standing.
glissando thicket (5) precedes pf+x points (7). bleedover from 5.1 "ob+cl
inflected chromatic line" into pf+x points (7.1). oboe and Bb clarinet or Eb
clarinet play in frayed unison ascent with color variation and mircotonal
respelling. the ascent is fragmented to occur a couple of divisions at a time
throughout [E] with rested divisions appearing between occurrences. there are
some really interesting alternations to be had between layers of glissando
thicket (5) and pf+x points (7). at the intersection of (5) and (7) are the
single struck pf attacks played normale, muted or as harmonics in each
material. (5) and (7) effect different pf rhythms. (5) and (7) effect possibly
very similar pf color. possibly pf not present in (5) in [E]. how can the
alternation between "sponged bass drum" (5.4) and "xylophone points" (7.1)
work? freely when the bass drum and the xylophone are near each other and when
the percussionist holds a sponge in one hand and a mallet in the other. in fact
it's possible for "sponged bass drum" (5.4) and "xylophone points" (7.1) to
overlap. note that wb-inflected "xylophone points" (7.1) and dead-stroke
"xylophone points" (7.1) require two hands. still possible to move rapidly
between "sponged bass drum" (5.4) and even the wb-inflected and dead-stroke
"xylophone points" (7.1) when the percussionist holds both a sponge and a
mallet in the right hand and a second mallet in the left hand. internal to
"glissando thicket" (5) are four layers and three rhythms. rhythm 5r1
articulates "ob+cl inflected chromatic line" (5.1); rhythm 5r2 articulates "pf
attacks" (5.2) and "vn, va, vc glissando thicket" (5.3); rhythm 5r3 articulates
"sponged bass drum" (5.4). "vn, va, vc glissando thicket" (5.3) with "sponged
bass drum" (5.4) comprises an interesting version of (5). reasonably quick
articulation of the events in "vn, va, vc glissando thicket" (5.3) with it
being relatively common that two of the three strings or that three of the
three strings share a duration or two successive durations. there's a version
of (5.3) + (5.4) where the rhythm of (5.4) is derived largely or entirely from
the rhythm of (5.3). that is there's a version of (5.3) + (5.4) where 5r3
derives largely or entirely from 5r2. [E] comprises a number of 5-7-5-7
alternations. maybe the "pf clusters" (1) at the end of [E] is very short.
maybe the "pf clusters" (1) at the end of [E] functions as a type of
end-punctuation to [E]. maybe "x points" (7) bleed over into "pf clusters" (1).
what is the range of "pf clusters" (1) in [E]? relatively low to contrast with
the relatively high register of "pf+x points" (7) in [E]. then pf, va, vc, bcl
are all available as parts of "pf clusters" (1) in [E]. then the version of "pf
clusters" (1) in [E] may comprise low-register pf clusters with low-register
vn, va, vc tremolo. "xylophone points" (7) continues layered over the top of
"pf+vn+va+vc clusters" (1). two independent rhythms. "pf+xylophone points" (7)
appears to comprise only the rhythm 7r1 that can be made more or less dense.
"pf clusters" (1) appears to comprise only the rhythm 1r1 that can be made more
or less dense. so "xylophone points" (7) continue in 7r1 above "pf+vn+va+vc
clusters" (1) in r1r during the last parts of [E]. it's also possible that
"xylophone points" (7) rise in pitch or fall in pitch during the time spent in
overlap with "pf+vn+va+vc clusters" (1) in [E]. it is also possible that
there's a subito exchange of one piccolo woodblock for another in
"(pf+)xylophone points" (7) in [E]. how do "pf+vn+va+vc clusters" (1) end in
[E]? depends on the degree of overlap desired with [F]. "ornamented oboe
writing" (6) begins [F]. (the consideration of "pf clusters" (1) in [E] shows
that the material probably always lacks the winds. the material instead is a
composite of the piano and strings with the option for very loudly struck
crotales in the upper registers.) how does [E] begin? with "myrkr" (3). which
myrkr? with white myrkr. the components are "bcl subtone" (3.1), "oboe air
tone" (3.2), "vn, va, vc on-the-bridge white" (3.3) and "sponged bass drum"
(3.4). a different rhythm articulates each of these four layers: rhythms 3r1,
3r2, 3r3, 3r4. [E] starts with some combination of the white layers (3.2),
(3.3), (3.4) in "white myrkr" (3). [E] progresses possibly by alternation to
introduce "bcl subtone" (3.1). [E] transitions from "white myrkr" (3) to
"glissando thicket" (5) only after all four layers of (3) appear. how does (5)
begin in [E]? how does (3) transition to (5) in [E]? the "sponged bass drum"
(3.4) can be held over into "sponged bass drum" (5.4) with the possibility of
change in rhythm. "vn, va, vc on-the-bridge white" (3.3) becomes "vn, va, vc
glissando thicket" (5.3) with possibly shared rhythm or possibly changed
rhythm. the transition from (3.3) to (5.3) in the strings also suggests the
possibility of introducing glissandi together with on-the-bridge bowing in
(3.3) to allow for only a change of bow location in (5.3).